# Multi-Language Test for both Client side and Our side
As we are building an API for adding some extra features for the Kukarella Web Application, it is important to check the availiblity of using the application on both English and non-English languages. And we are trying to use the built in audio to text system in Kukarella as well. Thus, we decide to have a test on both our project and Kukarella's existing system. For our side, we have already tested the funtion in peer-testing stage. The problem we found will be listed below. We are currently trying to run a test on non-English languages on our client's application.
## Test Result for Client's application
The way we did the test is choosing a paragraph of text like part of a stroy or speech. Put them into the Kukarella application, and check the result with the original text to find out how it performs. 
### English
The audio to text function works very well. Although there are some small problems, the reason can be the accent of the original audio so we consider those small error is acceptable.
### Non-English Languages
We choose two language for the Non-English Languages. According to the TA's advise, we decide to use Chinese and Japanese for test. The reason is Chinese have a completely different pronounce system compare to English, and Japanese is like a mid point of Chinese and English like languages such as Spanish or French. For Chinese, we firstly use a song as the input. However, the output seems to be not really satisifying. Most of the words are not correct. We think maybe it is the problem of some rythm of the song that makes the application do not understand the audio thoroughly. So we decide to check another audio.
For the Japanese audio, we used a self recorded audio from our teammebers. The result turns out to be very good. There is only a small error which is the error in the English test so it is acceptable. We also tried a different aligner called Montreal Forced Aligner (MFA) in our project. The phone it generated seems to be better than gentle. And its English version have almost the same performance with gentle. So we my consider implement MFA into our project instead of keep using gentle.
After getting some errors from some trials and doing some research online, we find out that MFA actually have a very strict restriction to file types. For the audio file, MFA only takes .wav or .mp3 files as an input. For the text file, it only takes .textgrid, .lab, and .txt files. For current stages, we have encountered problems when trying to align Japanese and English using MFA. We are trying to comment some issues in the MFA github to reach to the developers so that they can help us find out the reason of those problems. After solving the problem, we will be trying to replace gentle with MFA since it actually have a better performance on multi languages than gentle. It supports much more languages which is suitter for our clients' requirement.